Page 1 of 9
MZD - MAZDA Connect CMU Software Update Procedure WORLDWIDE
NOTE:
Revisions compared to are written in red texts or accompanied by red bars on the left.
Software update procedure: There are two versions: A) Full version and B) One Page version.
Both versions contain the instruction to avoid update failure.
The One Page version’s purpose is to print and use for update procedure in the vehicle.
A) Full version:
1. Remove Navigation SD card (if customer has one) and all other devices (USB, AUX, Mobile
phones. …) connected to the MZD Connect when ignition position is OFF.
2. Push engine start button once without depressing clutch pedal (manual transaxle) or brake pedal
(automatic transaxle). This will set ignition to ACC.
Wait until MZD system is booted.
3. Select AM, FM or DAB radio.

Page 2 of 9
4. Press three buttons (Music (A) + Favorite (B) + Volume Mute(C)) on the commander switch at
the same time for 2-5 seconds and the Diagnostic Test Screen will appear.
5. Use the touchscreen or the commander knob to input ‘3’ on test screen and then select “ENTER”
and “CLEAR”.
6. Input ‘2’ on test screen and then select “ENTER”. (This will internally clear earlier set DTCs in
CMU). Select “CLEAR” and then “EXIT”.
7. Switch ignition OFF, close all doors (regardless bonnet), lock vehicle with remote, keep all
remote transmitters 5 m or more away from the vehicle, and wait for 3 minutes (CMU sleep
mode).
8. Unlock the vehicle and press the START/STOP ENGINE push button once
without
depressing
the clutch pedal (manual transaxle) or the brake pedal (automatic transaxle), to switch the
ignition position to ACC.

Page 3 of 9
9. Connect the prepared USB memory stick to one of the two USB port (A) (depending on vehicle
equipment).
NOTE: Only the prepared USB memory
stick should be inserted in one of USB
ports. Nothing should be inserted in the
other USB port and SD slot during the re-flashing process.
10. When the USB memory stick is recognized, following message will appear briefly on the screen.
NOTE:
If USB memory stick is not recognized by the system, return to step 9.
11. Press again the three buttons (Music (A) + Favorites (B) + Volume Mute(C)) on commander
switch at the same time for 2-5 seconds.
12. Use touchscreen or commander knob to input ‘99’ and then select “ENTER” on Diagnostics Test
screen.

Page 4 of 9
13. Select “Search” on screen below.
14. When updating to software version 70.00.335 or later, go to step 22.
(“Fail Safe Package” has been eliminated since 70.00.335. No need to perform Failsafe
installation process since then.)
[Only when updating to software version 31.00.100A]
Select “Fail Safe Package” first.
CAUTION:
Always do the “Fail Safe Package” first.
Note:
Please check if CMU S/W is 29.00.000 or older. If yes, refer to Service Information
R036/18.
Note:
Please DO NOT switch ignition OFF or allow system to switch off ignition automatically until
all updates have been installed.
Note:
Stay inside the vehicle until failsafe package installation is finished.
15. Select “Install” on the screen below and the Failsafe installation process will start.

Page 5 of 9
16. Failsafe installation process will start and will take several minutes.
17. After Failsafe installation process is completed, select “OK”
18. Press and release clutch pedal (Manual Transaxle) or brake pedal (Automatic Transaxle) and
proceed with following steps without stopping.
NOTE:
If the ignition is left in ACC position it will automatically switch off after 25 minutes.
Performing this step resets timer to ensure vehicle does not switch off while installing
reinstallation package.
19. Press the three buttons (Music (A) + Favorite (B) + Volume Mute(C)) on commander switch at
the same time for 2-5 seconds to open the Diagnostics Test screen again.

Page 6 of 9
20. Use touchscreen or commander knob to input ‘99’ and then select “ENTER” on Diagnostics Test
screen.
21. Select “Search” on screen below.
22. Select “Reinstallation Package” or “Update Package” on the screen below.
NOTE:
“Reinstallation Package” appears when current version is 70.00.110 or before.
“Update Package” appears when current version is 70.00.335 or later.
(“Fail Safe Package” has been eliminated since 70.00.335. No need to perform Failsafe
installation process since then.)

Page 7 of 9
23. Select “Install” (or “Update” for 70.00.335 or later versions) on the screen below.
24. Screen below will be displayed.
“Preparing to update”→“black screen”→“White screen”. This will take several minutes.
Reinstallation / Update will start from 0% and during the update process, the progress bar will
gradually increase to 100%. It will take about 40 minutes.
DO NOT turn IG OFF to avoid damaging CMU.
NOTE:
In order to avoid ACC power being turned off during update process, press and release
clutch pedal (Manual Transaxle) or brake pedal (Automatic Transaxle) after approx. 25 minutes.
We strongly recommend to set a timer to 25 minutes.

Page 8 of 9
25. Confirm that update is completed and turn ignition switch OFF.
If you see “Please restart” on the screen, DO NOT restart the engine.
26. Remove USB stick, close all doors (incl. lift gate), lock vehicle with remote, keep all remote
transmitters 5 m or more away from vehicle, and wait for 3 minutes (CMU sleep mode).
27. Unlock vehicle with remote control and push engine start button once without depressing clutch
pedal (manual transaxle) or brake pedal (automatic transaxle) (IG ACC).
Wait 1 minute without any operation of any switch of any system.
28. Confirm software version in MZD settings.
29. Turn ignition switch OFF.
30. Insert Navigation-SD card (if removed in step 1) into slot. Go to NAV screen and confirm current
vehicle location is correctly displayed. If it is not correct, check GPS signal status and drive
vehicle for approx. 50 m at 15 km/h or faster speed.
If updating process will not finish successfully:
a. Turn the ignition switch OFF. (Do not start the engine.)
b. Wait until the screen turns to black.
c. Remove the USB memory stick.
d. Remove ROOM fuse and wait for one minute.
e. Install ROOM fuse.
f. Turn ignition switch to ACC. (Do not turn to ON or Start.)
g. Confirm the screen below appears.
h. Connect the USB memory stick to the USB port.
i. Confirm that update process restarts.
j. Continue from step 25 (update successful) again.

Page 9 of 9
B) One Page version:
1. Switch ignition OFF.
2. Remove SD card and all other devices (USB devices, mobile phones, AUX devices).
3. Switch ignition to ACC position.
(Push engine start button once without depressing clutch pedal for manual (MT) or brake pedal for
automatic transmission (AT)).
4. Wait until MZD has started, select AM or FM radio.
5. Press at the same time for 2 seconds
Music (
) + Favourite (
) + Volume Mute (
)
on command switch until Diagnostic Test Screen will appear.
6. Use the touchscreen or the command knob to input ‘3’ on test screen and then select “ENTER” and
“CLEAR”.
7. Input ‘2’ on test screen and then select “ENTER”. (This will internally clear earlier set DTCs in CMU).
Select “CLEAR” and then “EXIT”.
8. Switch ignition OFF, close all doors (incl. bonnet and lift gate), lock vehicle with remote, keep all
remote transmitters 5 m or more from the vehicle, and wait for 3 minutes (CMU sleep mode).
9. Unlock vehicle with remote control and switch ignition to ACC.
10. Insert USB stick with CMU update software and wait for message that USB is recognized.
11. Start Diagnostic Test Screen, enter ‘99’ and select “ENTER” on screen.
12. Select “Search” and verify that both packages have actual version.
13. When updating to software version 70.00.335 or later, go to POINT 16.
[Only when updating to software version 31.00.100A]
Select “Fail Safe Package” and “Install” on
next screen.
DO NOT RESTART OR SWITCH IGNITION OFF UP TO POINT 17!
14. Failsafe installation process will start. Update will take several minutes. Stay inside vehicle and select
“OK” after Fail Safe installation process is completed.
15. Start Diagnostic Test Screen and enter ‘99’ and select “ENTER” on screen.
16. Select “Reinstallation Package” or “Update Package” and on next screen “Install” or “Update”.
17. Complete installation of Reinstall / Update Package will take about 40 minutes.
“Preparing to update”, black screen and Update process bar will appear. Reinstallation will start
from 0%, the progress bar will gradually increase to 100%. The update progress bar may
pause for several minutes, please wait,
DO NOT SWITCH IGNITION OFF OR RESTART.
In order to avoid the ACC power being turned off automatically during CMU update,
press and release clutch pedal (MT) or the brake pedal (AT) after approx. 25 minutes to
reset power safe function. This will disable CMU sleep mode for next 25 minutes.
Please set a timer as a reminder for you.
18. Message to restart the vehicle will be shown short time after update reached 100%
DO NOT
RESTART,
just switch
IGNITION OFF without pressing brake or clutch pedal
.
19. Remove USB stick, close all doors (incl. bonnet and lift gate), lock vehicle with remote, keep all remote
transmitters 5 m or more from the vehicle, and wait for 3 minutes (CMU sleep mode).
20. Unlock the vehicle and switch ignition to ACC.
Wait 1 minute without any operation of any switch of any system.
21. Confirm the software version in MZD settings.
22. Switch ignition OFF and insert Navigation-SD card.
23.
Switch ignition ON and check system for operation step by step (Navigation, WiFi, Connected Service,
Radio, Bluetooth, USB, etc.)